---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Experience a professional portfolio
date: 2017-01-19
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - ICS 314
  - Javascript
---

One of the first aspects of looking at Javascript is how similar it is to Java and other programming language. Instead of learning the basics of Javascript in class we focused on performing simple problems to help us remember any basic Java coding that we may have temporarily forgotten. I find Javascript easily relatable to Java a coding language that I learned in college for the past year. I don’t recall using a lot of functions in Java but I’m surprised to see that Javascript uses it a lot. I also noticed some small changes in using var, let, and console.log and some similarities such as comments, if statements and for loops. 

I’m glad that I performed Exercise 06, after a month-long break people tend to forget simple stuff and I’m one of those people, that little exercise helped me remember a lot of basic functions from Java and apply it to Javascript. So far Javascript seems to be a good programming language however as a software engineering perspective there is no such thing as a perfect programming language and it’s only been two weeks since I started learning Javascript so there’s still a lot of learning I need to do before I can fully assess the program language. 

So far, I find athletic software engineering very challenging and “on my toes,”. I find myself so close to finding the answer and that kind of experience is frustrating but I does make it feel both not too hard and easy. I found the practice WOD’s to be very useful in preparing for the actual WOD on Thursday. In fact, I found the practice WOD’s to be a lot harder than the actual WOD that we performed on Thursday which is something that I appreciate. I enjoy this style of learning, instead of teaching us how to do the practice WOD you test yourself to find how close and good you are before typing in your code. In fact, since most the class should know how to use Java, it should be simple to at least get to some halfway point in the WOD. However later on when we start learning new material I hope that we work a little bit longer in class on the new material just in case we have questions for the professor and learning material is a lot easier for me with a classmate next to me. 

