---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E17: Reflect on configuration management
date: 2017-01-30
labels:
  - Configuration management
  - GitHub
  - Git
---

“Configuration management” is a central software engineering skill. Without effective configuration management, it would be almost impossible for teams to build large and complex software systems and maintain them over time.

Git is currently the most popular technology for configuration management, and GitHub is currently the most popular cloud-based software hosting platform.

What are your thoughts on configuration management? Have you ever had a problem due to the lack of effective configuration management practices?

Do you think GitHub is popular because of git? Or do you think git is popular because of GitHub?

Every time I’m on stack overflow I always notice these small job advertisements for software engineers and a quite a few allow you to work at home. However, it seems unthinkable that people would code at home or away from others. Better yet take your work with you when you go home. To an outsider that seems normal but a new computer science student may ask how? 
	
	I find configuration management to be a very powerful tool and asset. There’s no better way than the assignment I got from E05: Experience a professional portfolio. In that assignment, I faced so many obstacles just trying to create my GitHub portfolio. One of the biggest issues that I had is that I kept getting errors in my code and I couldn’t solve the issue. When the issue kept persisting I finally decided to go back in time through the commits I made for the portfolio. By doing so I could copy and paste the original or revert any changes that I made for my program. Without this function, I would’ve been pounding my head on my keyboard. Even better people can access your files and collaborate with you. Even when I fixed most my code I still had issues with an additional essay that I could delete. Through the collaborators option I could add Professor Johnson to help take a good look at what the issue was. In less than five minutes I had my portfolio up and running. If this option wasn’t available, I would have to wait the next morning when I go to school which would’ve wasted time. Without Git I don’t think I would’ve had that 10/10 for my assignment.
	
	I would have never heard of git without GitHub. In fact, when I first heard about GitHub I never knew that git was a standalone configuration management. GitHub is great because it has so many options and tools available to a software engineer. However, when I tried to connect to GitHub using my linux terminal, I found a huge learning curve since there wasn’t any help bar or tutorial on how to use it. 
	
	In conclusion, I find GitHub very useful for programming, if anything configuration management has already saved me on my assignments. I have already uploaded all my past assignments and work from my other ICS classes to my GitHub portfolio that way if any future employers want to see how I work they can easily access it through GitHub. 
