---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflect on Coding Standards
date: 2017-02-06
labels:
  - Coding Standards
  - ESLint
  - IntelliJ
---

## Reflecting on coding standards 

Many people think of “coding standards” in a trivial way—i.e. minutae such as how many spaces to indent, or whether you place the close-curly-brace on a new line by itself.

I, on the other hand, think that if you can only implement one software engineering technique to improve quality, it should be coding standards. Indeed, I believe some coding standards can actually help you learn a programming language. Do you agree?

  Back when I was in the Army every time I moved to another duty station in Korea or Georgia every unit had some sort of standard or rule on going off post, curfew and even appearance. An outsider may wonder: “How does the Army operate with so many different rules and standards?”. The answer is that the Army has its own regulation and rules that every unit needs to follow. So just because the rules don’t state how to wear your Army uniform doesn’t mean that your allowed to wear it in a different way. So, if you were to bring ten random units together into a massive formation every soldier will look the same way in the same uniform on time and in the proper formation.
  
I agree, I can see how coding standards are a big deal in the computer science community. If your new workplace has a different way of doing their projects you’re probably going to see some similar stuff from your coding standards. Or even a better example if you wanted to create a new project that included people from different companies and coding style you’re going to have to find a common standard that everyone might know and that common standard are the coding standards. 

After your first week of using ESLint with IntelliJ, what are your impressions? Are you finding that getting the green checkmark is painful, or useful, or both, or something else entirely?

Currently I’m finding the ESLint with IntelliJ very painful to use because I’m getting errors that I shouldn’t be having. For example, ESLint is giving me an error every time I use the ++ symbol which shouldn’t be happening. Other times when I get too many errors it sometimes focuses on an error that I should be doing last. I did notice some good things about ESLint than the default Javascript error check. When I was first using the default Javascript error check I got an error for having a semicolon in the correct place which bamboozled me for five whole minutes on why I was getting this odd error. 
  
Write an interesting, informative essay on coding standards that addresses some or all of the above questions, or goes in a different direction entirely regarding coding standards. Make sure it provides your personal perspective and useful insights.
	
  In total, I do agree that everyone should learn the coding standards than a multitude of software engineering techniques. After all there are tons of programming languages out there right now and not everyone can speak the same code so it’s important to find some sort of standard that everyone can relate to and this also explains why so many coding languages have the similarities with other coding languages. 
